---
layout: post
title: Apache & PHP Install 
categories: [ge&neral, setup, demo]
tags: [apache, php, troubleshooting, setup]
fullview: true
---

For the past few days, I've been trying to get Apache and PHP to work together. The biggest issue I ran into was missing dependencies, apache configurations, and not having root access.

I'll go through the major issues I've had. Hopefully, this will help take out of the headaches with getting PHP running with Apache.

The first issue is installation. A lot of times, the user doesn't have root access and most of the information on the internet assumes you do. During installation most of the commands you find on the internet starts with sudo. This would in turn install libraries and software into directories you wouldn't have write permission to if you were able to install it.

We'll assume that the stuff we're going to be installing will be on a Unix based system with a /data/ directory.

First issue I ran into was apr & apr-util dependencies. You can download both these dependencies here. After you've extracted the tarball, you should move the directories under your apache installation under /data/lib/apache/

[Link to download apr and apr-util](https://apr.apache.org/download.cgi)

move apr and apr-util into /data/lib/apache/modules/

{% highlight yaml %}
./configure --prefix=/data/lib/apache --enable-module-so --with-included-apr --with-pcre=/data/lib/pcre/bin/pcre-config
make clean
make install
{% endhighlight %}

{% highlight yaml %}
./configure --prefix=/data/lib/php --with-apxs2=/data/lib/apache/bin/apxs --with-png-dir=/data/lib/libpng --with-libxml-dir=/data/lib/libxml2 --with-zlib=/data/lib/zlib --with-libzip=/data/lib/zip -with-gd
make clean 
make install
{% endhighlight %}
